---
title: "Robots, Games and Problem Solving"
number: "COMP 115"
semester: "Spring 2011"
---
I took my first computer science class about 8 years ago in high school. It was taught in C++. After less than 2 weeks, I dropped out of that class, convinced that I was not smart enough to take on the subject.

Fast forward to 3 years ago, when I decided to take an introductory class to Computer Science (CS), almost as an afterthought. I came into college determined to major in Economics, and figured that Computer Science would be a fun, less reading-intensive class to take in addition to the regular Economics courses. Little did I know that this class, COMP 115 "Robots, Games and Problem Solving", would change my college career and potentially my life path.

After a few weeks of taking COMP 115, I started to notice an unusual trend. I was more motivated to do this class's homework than any other class. For the first time, I enjoyed thoroughly working on a homework problem and often wished to have more problems to do. This was such a powerful experience to me that at that point I decided to major in CS in addition to Economics.

In hindsight, that was one of the most fruitful decisions I have made, and yet one with a high degree of uncertainty. I would not have taken another CS class after COMP 115 for another year due to the schedule of the department. It was as if I decided to take a dive into the pool without knowing how deep it was.

The amazing thing about the CS department at Wheaton is that they do not let you swim alone. Since joining the department, I have had the opportunities to forge many close relationships with other students and professors in the department. These ties provide me with a nourishing environment to learn not just in the classroom but also beyond. I had the chance to build real life applications, experiment with new ideas and equipments, and give back to the community by helping newer students.

I have since fully enjoyed wading and swimming in this pool of Computer Science knowledge. Despite being a relatively young field of study, Computer Science embodies an infinite pool that has the potential to reach its application in any other aspect of life. This single facet has remained a deep motivational force that pushes me through from those very first simple homework problems to complex web applications that I build today.