---
title: "Climate Change, Past and Present"
number: "PHYS 165"
semester: "Spring 2011"
---
I take this Physics class with a single purpose in mind - to reaffirm my personal belief in the environmental degradation that the world is experiencing and figure out how to protect Mother Nature. I come away from it with a renewed and more informed view the environmental issues that we face today, but also a much richer understanding of the Earth's history.

Earth is an incredibly resilient yet ever-changing place. In that long history, the existence of human beings is but a small speck. If we were to scale the long history into a 20-year period, the construction of the pyramids is just 12 minutes ago from the present, and the dninosaus first appeared a year ago. This humbling realization has me think about my own action every day, especially those that carry a direct impact on nature.

And while our presence is fleeting, we as a human race are inflicting profound and irreversible damage on this planet. These damages are observed and predicted from the understanding of how climatic systems evolve and interact, and backed up by data collected from highly technological monitoring and prediction equipments.

An unforgettable assignment from this class was an essay on the paleoclimate of the period called Carboniferous, between 354 million years and 290 million years ago. As this period is dated so far back, little research is available to document the state of the Earth at that point. In order to complete the assignment, I used all the data I could find combined with the theories learned in class about how a climate system evolves to [paint a picture of what Earth might have looked like during this period](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xa8Qu1e4lGHGLayuk1XVN-Gha_mdNc7ix62BKbRInHE/edit?usp=sharing). The excitement in the final paper when the pieces start to come together is palpable. From a seemingly dead end, I am able to uncover new insights and make hypotheses that would hopefully shed better light on the understanding of the paleoclimate of this period.