---
title: "Cultural Identity and History Lessons"
number: "FSEM 101"
semester: "Fall 2010"
---
How would we feel if the first lesson we learned in college was that most of what we were taught in history class up to this point is not true? Yet, this is exactly the kind of lesson I come to expect of a college classroom - one that would intrigue you, challenge you, make you first go "Huh?", then "Ahh!".

In my First-Year Seminar (FYS) at Wheaton, I was shown not just the biases and untruths in history textbooks, but also the psychological, sociological and political mechanisms that we humans arrive at our idiosyncracies, sometimes unintentionally, others maliciously.

First, to appreciate the vast diversity that is present in the world, we look at the differences that are right within our classroom of fifteen. As an international student who has lived in two different countries prior, I experience college from a perspective that is quite different from the girl next to me who comes from a town of less than two thousand people in rural New England area and has not been outside of the country. As one of my professors later explains, "Wheaton is the most diverse place for some and also the least diverse for others".

Unlike other classes that I have taken since the fall of 2010 which focus more heavily on academic subjects, this FYS does not seem like a class. It is more an informal discussion among the freshmen about our own experiences prior to college, what we hope to get out of it and what strategies we might employ to do so. Through this exercise we recognize our own cultural identity and its contrast with others'.

Coming back to the history lesson, each of us is then to pick out a chapter of our choice in a history textbook, carry out research and rewrite it in a fashion that we think is more unbiased. This assignment really captures my fascination, for I never before thought that such an exercise would be a realistic thing for an adult to do, much less so a first-year college student. I chose to rewrite the chapter on the [American involvement in the Vietnam War](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uRVAqByM1ea5lIRV_FvaL4330wAACjGlrewumU8-CMY/edit?usp=sharing). Being in the position of a writer of history, even just for the audience of one, carries tremendous power and responsiblity. I am aware of the details that I choose to include and those I choose to leave out. I am also cognizant of the choice of tone and attitude in presenting a complex story, careful not to make any strong bias for one side or the other.

Without expecting it, this class teaches me the ability to think critically, in its purest sense. To be critical is not only about finding faults and gaps in another person's argument, but also the assumptions and mistakes within one's own.